.\" Copyright (c) 1996 David Hinds <dhinds@allegro.stanford.edu>
.\" aha152x_cs.4 1.3 1997/09/08 02:13:01
.\"
.TH AHA152X_CS 4 "1997/09/08 02:13:01" "Stanford University"
.SH NAME
aha152x_cs \- Adaptec AHA-152X compatible PCMCIA device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod aha152x_cs.o
.RB [ pc_debug=n ]
.RB [ irq_list=i,j,... ]
.RB [ host_id=n ]
.RB [ reconnect=n ]
.RB [ parity=n ]
.RB [ synchronous=n ]
.RB [ reset_delay=n ]
.RB [ ext_trans=n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aha152x_cs
is the low-level Card Services driver for various PCMCIA SCSI adapters
that are compatible with the Adaptec AHA-152X host adapter.  These
include the New Media Bus Toaster, the Adaptec AHA-1460, and various
other OEM cards.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B pc_debug=n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.B irq_list=i,j,...
Specifies the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver.
.TP
.B host_id=n
Specifies the SCSI ID of the host adapter.  The default host ID is 7.
.TP
.B reconnect=n
Enables support for disconnect/reconnect, if non-zero.
The default is 1 (true).
.TP
.B parity=n
Enables SCSI parity checking.  The default is 1 (true).
.TP
.B synchronous=n
Enables negotiation of synchronous SCSI transfers.
The default is 0 (false).
.TP
.B reset_delay=n
Specifies a delay for SCSI bus resets, in 10 millisecond intervals.
The default is 100.
.TP
.B ext_trans=n
Enables the ``extended translation'' scheme for partition tables of
drives larger than 1 GB.
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@allegro.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5).
