.\" Copyright (C) 2001 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" axnet_cs.4 1.2 2004/03/19 15:45:00
.\"
.TH AXNET_CS 4 "2004/03/19 15:45:00" "pcmcia-cs"

.SH NAME
axnet_cs \- Asix AX88190 chipset PCMCIA Ethernet Driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod axnet_cs.o
.RB [ pc_debug=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ irq_list=\c
.IR i,j,... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBAxnet_cs\fR is a driver for PCMCIA ethernet cards based on the Asix
AX88190 chipset.  These cards are mostly NE2000 compatible but have
several bugs that are sufficiently tricky to work around that a
separate driver was deemed necessary.  When this driver is bound to a
card, it  allocates the next available ethernet device
.RB ( eth0 .. eth# ).
This device name will be reported in the kernel log file, and passed
on to \fBcardmgr\fR(8).
.PP
The driver uses the N-Way autonegotiating transceiver to negotiate the
speed and duplex of the network link.  If the link partner does not
support negotiation, only the link speed is detected.  To monitor or
override the autonegotiation process, see \fBmii-tool\fR(8).

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI pc_debug= n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.BI irq_list= i,j,...
Specifies the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B axnet_cs: this is not an AX88190 card!
Indicates that this card is probably a normal NE2000 compatible card,
which requires the \fBpcnet_cs\fR driver.
.TP
.B eth#: interrupt(s) dropped!
Indicates that the driver did not receive an interrupt notification
for some reason.  The driver will poll the card (with a significant
performance penalty) if the problem persists.  The most likely cause
is an interrupt conflict and/or host bridge configuration problem.

.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5), mii-tool(8).
