.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.\" cardctl.8 1.11 1998/05/11 23:10:40
.\"
.TH CARDCTL 8 "1998/05/11 23:10:40" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
cardctl \- PCMCIA card control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cardctl
.RB [ -V ]
.I command
.RI [ socket ]
.br
.B cardctl
.RB [ "\-c\ "\c
.I config\c
]
.RB [ "\-f\ "\c
.I schemefile\c
]
.RB [ "\-s\ "\c
.I stab\c
]
.B scheme
.RI [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cardctl
is used to monitor and control the state of PCMCIA sockets.  If a
socket number is specified, the command will be applied to just one
socket; otherwise, all sockets will be affected.
.PP
.B Cardctl
is also used to select between multiple PCMCIA configuration schemes.
The current scheme name is passed to the device option scripts as part
of the ``device address'', so the scripts can use it to choose between
different setups.
.PP
If
.B cardctl
is executed by root, all commands are available.  If it is executed by
an unpriviledged user, only the informational commands are accessible.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP \w'abcd'u
.B status
Display the current socket status flags.
.TP
.B config
Display the socket configuration, including power settings, interrupt
and I/O window settings, and configuration registers.
.TP
.B suspend
Shut down and then disable power for a socket.
.TP
.B resume
Restore power to a socket, and re-configure for use.
.TP
.B reset
Send a reset signal to a socket, subject to approval by any drivers
already bound to the socket.
.TP
.B eject
Notify all client drivers that this card will be ejected, then cut
power to the socket.
.TP
.B insert
Notify all client drivers that this card has just been inserted.
.TP
.B scheme
If no scheme name is given,
.B cardctl
will display the current PCMCIA configuration scheme.  If a scheme
name is given,
.B cardctl
will unconfigure all PCMCIA devices, and reconfigure for the new
scheme.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-c " config
Look for the card configuration database and card configuration
scripts in the specified directory, instead of 
.IR /etc/pcmcia .
.TP
.BI "\-f " schemefile
Use the specified file to keep track of the current configuration
scheme, instead of
.IR /var/run/pcmcia-scheme .
.TP
.BI "\-s " stab
Read current socket information from the specified file, instead of
.IR /var/run/stab .
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8).
