.\" Copyright (c) 1995 David Hinds <dhinds@allegro.stanford.edu>
.\" cardinfo.1 1.4 1995/09/29 16:47:35
.\"
.TH CARDCTL 1 "1995/09/29 16:47:35" "Stanford University"
.SH NAME
cardinfo \- PCMCIA card monitor and control utility for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cardinfo
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cardinfo
displays the current configurations of all PCMCIA sockets in the
system.  For each card, the display includes the card name, the card
state, IO port and interrupt settings, and the names of any devices
associated with that card.  Each socket also has a menu of commands
for manipulating the socket state.
.PP
The socket state includes a row of abbreviated state flags.  The
.B CD
flag indicates that a card is detected in that socket.  The
.B Vcc
flag indicates that the socket is powered up.  The
.B Vpp
flag indicates that the programming power supply is active.  The
.B WP
flag indicates that the card is write protected.
.PP
Below the socket status data is a log of card status change events.
The following events are logged: card insertion and removal, user
insert and eject requests, suspend and resume, and socket resets.
.PP
The reset button below the socket displays sends a SIGHUP signal to
.BR cardmgr ,
causing all sockets to be reinitialized from scratch.
.PP
.B Cardinfo
is setuid root so that it can create temporary device
files for accessing the PCMCIA sockets.  An ordinary user will not be
able to access any of the socket control functions.
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@allegro.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), cardctl(8).

