.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" cardmgr.8 1.38 2000/11/19 00:06:18
.\"
.TH CARDMGR 8 "2000/11/19 00:06:18" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
cardmgr \- PCMCIA device manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cardmgr
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -q ]
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ -o ]
.RB [ -f ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ "\-c\ "\c
.I configpath\c
]
.RB [ "\-m\ "\c
.I modpath\c
]
.RB [ "\-p\ "\c
.I pidfile\c
]
.RB [ "\-s\ "\c
.I stabfile\c
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cardmgr
monitors PCMCIA sockets for card insertion and removal events.  When a
card is inserted, \fBcardmgr\fR
looks up the card in a database of known cards.  If the card can be
identified, appropriate device drivers will be loaded and bound to the
card.  When a card is ejected, that card's drivers will be shut down
and unloaded if possible.  Based on the contents of the PCMCIA card
configuration database, \fBcardmgr\fR
may also execute arbitrary commands when appropriate cards are either
inserted or removed.
.PP
All insertion and removal events, device driver loads and unloads, and
startup and shutdown commands are reported in the system log file.
Warnings and errors will also be logged.  Current card and device
information for each socket is recorded in
.IR /var/lib/pcmcia/stab .
.PP
Normally, when a card is identified, \fBcardmgr\fR
will send a beep to the console.  A beep is also generated when a card
is successfully configured.  A beep of lower pitch is generated if
either of these steps fails.  Ejecting a card produces a single beep.
.PP
When \fBcardmgr\fR
receives a \fBSIGHUP\fR
signal, it will reload its configuration file.  When \fBcardmgr\fR
receives a \fBSIGTERM\fR
signal, it will shut down all sockets that are not busy and then
exit, but drivers for busy sockets will stay loaded.
.PP
If the \fBPCMCIA_OPTS\fR
environment variable is set, its contents will be parsed after the
main card configuration file is read.
.PP
At startup, \fBcardmgr\fR requires that \fI/tmp\fR
reside on a filesystem that permits special device files (i.e., a real
linux filesystem, that is not mounted "nodev").

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode: don't beep when cards are inserted.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode: generates more informational messages during normal
operation.
.TP
.B \-d
Follow module dependencies when loading driver modules, by defaulting
to use \fBmodprobe\fR instead of \fBinsmod\fR.
Normally, \fBcardmgr \fR will try using \fBmodprobe\fR only after an
unsuccessful attempt with \fBinsmod\fR.
.TP
.B \-f
Foreground: do not fork and run as a daemon until after configuring
any cards that are already present.
.TP
.B \-o
One pass: configure cards that are present, then exit.  This flag
also forces \fBcardmgr\fR to run in the foreground.
.TP
.BI "\-c " configpath
Look for the card configuration database and card configuration
scripts in the specified directory, instead of \fI/etc/pcmcia\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-m " modpath
Look for loadable kernel modules in the specified directory, instead
of \fI/lib/modules/`uname -r`\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-p " pidfile
Write the PID of the cardmgr process to the specified file, instead of
\fI/var/run/cardmgr.pid\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-s " stabfile
Write current socket information to the specified file, instead of
\fI/var/lib/pcmcia/stab\fR.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/etc/pcmcia/config.opts\ \ \ \|\|'u
/etc/pcmcia/config
Card configuration database
.TP
/etc/pcmcia/config.opts
Local resource settings for PCMCIA devices
.TP
/var/run/cardmgr.pid
PID of active cardmgr process
.TP
/var/lib/pcmcia/stab
Current card and device information for each socket.

.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcmcia(5), stab(5), cardctl(8), cardinfo(1).
