.\" Copyright (C) 2003 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" dummy_cb.4 1.1 2003/09/15 05:36:41
.\"
.TH DUMMY_CB 4 "2003/09/15 05:36:41" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
dummy_cb \- CardBus dummy device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBinsmod dummy_cb.o\fR [\fBpc_debug=\fIn\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdummy_cb\fR module is a sort of "point enabler" for CardBus
cards.  When it is bound to a card, it configures that card, but
otherwise does not do anything.  It may be useful for cards that have
Hot Plug PCI kernel drivers, but do not have CardBus client drivers in
the pcmcia-cs package.  Hot Plug PCI drivers expect the kernel to
handle CardBus card configuration; instead, drivers in the pcmcia-cs
package rely on the cb_enabler module to do that.
.P
To use \fBdummy_cb\fR, edit \fI/etc/pcmcia/config.opts\fR and add one
or more card descriptions, like:
.sp
.RS
.nf
card "Western Digital 1394 Adapter"
  pci 0x1033, 0x00cd
  bind "dummy_cb"
.RE
.fi
.sp
This will override any driver bindings in the main config file.  After
restarting \fBcardmgr\fR, then, insertion of these cards should load
\fBdummy_cb\fR.  After that, the Hot Plug PCI driver can be loaded.
.P
Before ejecting a card using \fBdummy_cb\fR, it is important to
manually unload the corresponding Hot Plug PCI driver.  Since
\fBcardmgr\fR cannot notify this sort of driver about removal events,
bad things can happen if the Hot Plug PCI driver is not unloaded
first.  Yes this is rather fragile.  Ideally, people will use Hot Plug
PCI drivers with the kernel PCMCIA subsystem, but \fBdummy_cb\fR is
meant as a quick fix for situations where that is not possible.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI pc_debug= n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5).
