.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.\" i82365.4 1.22 1999/02/08 08:01:37
.\"
.TH I82365 4 "1999/02/08 08:01:37" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
i82365 \- Intel i82365sl PCMCIA controller driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod i82365.o
.RB [ pc_debug=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ i365_base=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ ignore=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ extra_sockets=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ do_scan=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ irq_list=\c
.IR i,j,... ]
.RB [ cs_irq=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ poll_interval=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cycle_time=n]
.RB [ do_pci_probe=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cb_mem_base=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cb_bus_base=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cb_bus_step=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ pci_csc=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ pci_int=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ has_dma=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ has_led=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ has_ring=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ freq_bypass=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ setup_time=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cmd_time=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ recov_time=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ wakeup=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ fast_pci=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ async_clock=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ cable_mode=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ has_clkrun=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ clkrun_sel=\c
.IR n ]
.RB [ irq_mode=\c
.IR n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the low-level driver for the Intel i82365sl PCMCIA host
controller, and many derivative controllers.  It also implements the
Intel "Yenta" register specification for CardBus bridges.  Common
clones of the i82365sl include controllers made by Cirrus Logic, IBM, 
O2Micro, Omega Micro, Ricoh, SMC, Texas Instruments, Toshiba, Vadem,
and VLSI.  The overwhelming majority of current PCMCIA controllers,
and all CardBus bridges, are register compatible with the i82365sl.
This driver is used by Card Services for configuring the host
controller, and for monitoring card status change events.
.PP
When the
.B i82365
driver is loaded, it will try to determine what interrupts can safely
be allocated for use by PCMCIA devices.  Cirrus controllers support
some optional features that interfere with the use of certain
interrupt lines.  Cirrus chips also lack the functionality needed to
detect whether or not an interrupt can be used.  The
.BR has_dma ,
.BR has_ring ,
and
.B has_led
options are used to specify if these features are implemented.
.PP
An i82365-compatible controller normally sits at the IO addresses
0x3e0-0x3e1.  Two controllers can cooperate to share the same IO
ports, supporting a total of four sockets.  A second pair of
controllers can be located at 0x3e2-0x3e3.  Probing at this position
is controlled by the
.BR extra_sockets
parameter.  The driver will support a maximum of eight sockets.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI pc_debug= n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.BI i365_base= n
Sets the base I/O port address of the i82365sl chip.  The default is
0x3e0.
.TP
.BI ignore= n
Causes the driver to ignore a single socket.  Sockets are numbered
starting at 0.  The socket will be left in whatever state it was
already in, so it can be used for cards with point enablers that do
not cooperate with Card Services.
.TP
.BI extra_sockets= n
A flag indicating if the driver should probe for as many as eight
sockets, or stop after checking for four sockets.  The default is
0 (stop at four sockets).  Systems with two independent PCMCIA
controllers (say, one internal and one in a docking station) may
require this flag to be set, even though they have a total of only
four sockets.  If this flag is set, then
.BR poll_interval
will automatically be enabled.
.TP
.BI do_scan= n
This flag specifies that all free interrupts should be tested to see
if they can be triggered by the PCMCIA controller.  The default is 1
(true). 
.TP
.BI irq_list= i,j,...
Specifies the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver,
if they are otherwise available.
The default list is 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15.
.TP
.BI cs_irq= n
Sets the interrupt line to use for monitoring card status changes.
The default is 0, which means pick the highest-numbered legal
interrupt not already in use.  Legal values are 15, 14, 12, 11,
10, 9, 7, 5, 4, and 3.
.TP
.BI poll_interval= n
Sets the card status polling delay, in 1/100 second increments.  If
this parameter is set, card status interrupts will be disabled.  A
reasonable value is 100.
.TP
.BI cycle_time= n
Sets the length of a host bus cycle, in nanoseconds.  The default is
210 ns, corresponding to a standard 4.77 MHz clock.

.SH Options for CardBus controllers
.TP
.BI do_pci_probe= n
This flag indicates if the PCI bus should be probed for PCI-to-PCMCIA
and/or PCI-to-CardBus bridges.  The default is 1 (true).
.TP
.BI cb_mem_base= n
Sets the base address to use for memory mapping CardBus registers, if
not set by the PCI BIOS.  The default is 0x68000000.
.TP
.BI cb_bus_base= n
Specifies that PCI bus numbers for CardBus busses should be renumbered
starting with this value.  By default, bus values that are
uninitialized at boot time will be numbered starting with bus 0x20.
.TP
.BI cb_bus_step= n
Specifies the number of bus slots to reserve for secondary PCI
busses, for each CardBus socket, when busses are renumbered.  The
default is 2.
.TP
.BI pci_csc= n
Specifies that card status change interrupts should be routed to PCI
interrupts, for CardBus controllers.  The default is 0 (false).
.TP
.BI pci_int= n
Specifies that functional interrupts for IO cards should be routed to
PCI interrupts, for CardBus controllers.  The default is 0 (false).

.SH Options specific for Cirrus controllers
.TP
.BI has_dma= n
A flag (zero is false, non-zero is true) indicating if the controller
has DMA support.
.TP
.BI has_led= n
A flag indicating if the controller is wired for a disk status LED.
This is set by default.
.TP
.BI has_ring= n
A flag indicating if the controller's "ring indicate" signal is
implemented.  This is set by default.
.TP
.BI freq_bypass= n
A flag indicating that the controller should be set up in "frequency
bypass" mode.  This disables the normal 7/4 clock multiplier, and
slows down all PCMCIA bus access, for systems with fast system clocks.
.TP
.BI setup_time= n
Sets the bus setup time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 1.
.TP
.BI cmd_time= n
Sets the bus command time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 6.
.TP
.BI recov_time= n
Sets the bus recovery time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 0.
.TP
.BI wakeup= n
A flag indicating if the probe function should attempt to wake up a
suspended controller chip.  The default is 0.
.TP
.BI fast_pci= n
A flag for the CL6729 PCI controller, indicating that the PCI bus
speed exceeds 25 MHz.

.SH Options specific for Ricoh CardBus controllers
.TP
.BI irq_mode= n
Selects the interrupt routing method.  A value of 1 selects ISA
interrupt routing, and 2 selects interrupt routing via an external
serial interrupt controller.  The default is to use whatever routing
method is already enabled.
.TP
.BI setup_time= n
Sets the bus setup time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 3.
.TP
.BI cmd_time= n
Sets the bus command time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 6.
.TP
.BI hold_time= n
Sets the bus hold time, in internal clock cycles. The default is 1.

.SH Options specific for Vadem controllers
.TP
.BI async_clock= n
This flag specifies that PCMCIA bus cycles should be clocked
asynchronously from host bus cycles.  It effectively adds a wait state
to some operations.
.BI cable_mode= n
For the VG469, this flag adjusts certain socket signals for driving a
socket connected via a cable.

.SH Options specific for TI CardBus controllers
Normally, a system's BIOS will configure these options appropriately,
so all these options default to leaving these features configured the
way the driver finds them.
.TP
.BI has_ring= n
A flag indicating if the controller is wired for "ring indicate".
The default is to read the current setting from the controller.
.TP
.BI has_clkrun= n
A flag indicating if the controller is wired for PCI CLKRUN support.
The default is to read the current setting from the controller.
.TP
.BI clkrun_sel= n
A flag indicating if the CLKRUN signal is wired to the ISA interrupt
12 pin, as opposed to ISA interrupt 10.
The default is to read the current setting from the controller.
.TP
.BI irq_mode= n
Selects the interrupt routing method.  A value of 1 selects ISA
interrupt routing, and 2 selects interrupt routing via an external
serial interrupt controller.  The default is to use whatever routing
method is already active, or ISA routing if no method is enabled.

.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5).
