.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" ifport.8 1.10 2002/05/06 05:31:51
.\"
.TH IFPORT 8 "2002/05/06 05:31:51" "pcmcia-cs"

.SH NAME
ifport \- select the transceiver type for a network interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ifport
.I interface
.RB [ auto | 10baseT | 10base2 | aui | 100baseT | ## ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ifport
sets the transceiver type for the specified network interface, for
drivers that support multiple independent transceivers.  If a type is
not  specified on the command line, then the current type is
displayed.  The type can be specified either numerically or by
keyword.  The five standard transceiver types
.RB ( auto ,
.BR 10baseT ,
.BR 10base2 ,
.BR aui ,
and
.BR 100baseT )
correspond to codes 0 to 3, for all the Linux PCMCIA network drivers.
The keyword match is case insensitive.
.PP
The network drivers may not reconfigure a card for a new transceiver
type if the interface is already open.  It is best to invoke
.B ifport
prior to configuring the interface with
.B ifconfig
to ensure that the new setting takes effect immediately.
.PP
This utility only works with a limited set of 16-bit PC Card drivers:
\fB3c589_cs\fR, \fBnmclan_cs\fR, \fBpcnet_cs\fR, \fBsmc91c92_cs\fR,
and \fBxirc2ps_cs\fR.  It also only works for certain cards that
require manual transceiver selection.  If invoked for other drivers,
\fBifport\fR may report bogus transceiver settings, or report
``Operation not supported''.  Most modern 10/100baseT cards use a
``Media Independent Interface'' (MII) chip that automatically selects
between 10baseT and 100baseT modes; this sort of transceiver can be
manipulated using the \fBmii-tool\fR(8) command.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B ioctl: Operation not supported
Indicates that this network device does not support manual transceiver
selection.  There may be only one transceiver option, or the device
may autodetect the appropriate transceiver.  Or the card may have an
MII interface.

.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ifconfig(8), mii-tool(8).