.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.\" pack_cis.8 1.2 1998/09/27 21:02:34
.\"
.TH PACK_CIS 8 "1998/09/27 21:02:34" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
pack_cis \- Utility to parse PCMCIA Card Information Structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pack_cis
.RB [ "\-o\ "\c
.I outfile\c
]
.I infile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pack_cis
is used to convert a text description of a PCMCIA Card
Information Structure (CIS) to its packed binary representation.  It
can parse a reasonably useful subset of the possible output of the
.B dump_cis
utility.  The primary use of
.B pack_cis
is to construct replacement CIS files
for cards that have incomplete, inaccurate, or damaged CIS
structures.  Thus, the supported tuple types are mostly limited to
things that are important for correctly configuring typical IO cards.
.PP
By default, the packed data is written to standard output.
.SH FORMAT
The best way to get started writing CIS descriptions will be to use
.B dump_cis
to extract the CIS data from a card, and to examine the CIS files
distributed with the PCMCIA source tree in
.IR etc/cis/ .
.PP
The basic structure of a CIS is a list of tuple descriptions.
Anything following a hash mark (``#'') is treated as a comment.
A multifunction CIS can be described with the notation:
.sp
.RS
.nf
[common tuple list]
mfc {
  [tuple list for function 0]
}, {
  [tuple list for function 1]
}
.RE
.fi
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " outfile
Write the packed tuple data to the specified file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/etc/pcmcia/cis\ \ \ \|\|'u
/etc/pcmcia/cis
Standard location for packed CIS files
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dump_cis(8), cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5).
