.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" pcnet_cs.4 1.18 2001/11/04 22:57:46
.\"
.TH PCNET_CS 4 "2001/11/04 22:57:46" "pcmcia-cs"

.SH NAME
pcnet_cs \- generic NS8390-based PCMCIA Ethernet Driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod pcnet_cs.o
[\fBpc_debug=\fIn\fR]
[\fBirq_list=\fIi,j,...\fR]
[\fBif_port=\fIn\fR]
[\fBfull_duplex=\fIn\fR]
[\fBuse_big_buf=\fIn\fR]
[\fBuse_shmem=\fIn\fR]
[\fBmem_speed=\fIn\fR]
[\fBdelay_output=\fIn\fR]
[\fBdelay_time=\fIn\fR]
[\fBhw_addr=\fIn,n,n,n,n,n\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBPcnet_cs\fR is a driver for all NS8390-based PCMCIA ethernet cards.
It can use either polled IO or a shared memory window to exchange data
with the card.  The driver first tests for a shared memory buffer,
falling back on polled IO if the memory test fails.  When this driver
is bound to a card, it allocates the next available ethernet device
(\fBeth0\fR..\fBeth#\fR).  This device name will be reported in the
kernel log file, and passed on to \fBcardmgr\fR(8).

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI pc_debug= n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.BI irq_list= i,j,...
Specifies the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver.
.TP
.BI if_port= n
Selects the transceiver type, for Socket EA and IBM CCAE cards.  1 is
10baseT (twisted pair), and 2 is 10base2 (BNC, or thin net).  The
default is 1 (10baseT).
.TP
.BI full_duplex= n
For DL10022 based cards where pcnet_cs can't find the MII interface,
this option permits manual control of the duplex setting.  1 is full
duplex, and 0 is half duplex; the default is 0.
.TP
.BI use_big_buf= n
For Socket EA cards, a flag indicating if the driver should use the
large (64K) packet buffer.  The default is 1 (true).
.TP
.BI use_shmem= n
Selects shared memory versus polled IO mode for packet transfers.  The
default is -1, meaning to use the card's CIS information to decide.
.TP
.BI mem_speed= n
Sets the access speed of the shared memory window, in nanoseconds.
The default is 0 (i.e., no extra wait states).  Values of up to 1000
are legal.
.TP
.BI delay_output= n
Specifies that a delay should be inserted after a polled IO block
output.  This is turned on by default for Accton and Socket EA cards.
.TP
.BI delay_time= n
Specifies the length of the \fBdelay_output\fR delay, in microseconds.
The default is 4.
.TP
.BI hw_addr= n,n,n,n,n,n
For cards whose hardware ethernet addresses can't be identified by the
current driver, this is a hack for hardwiring a specific address.  The
argument should consist of exactly six byte-sized numbers, separated
by commas, with no spaces.  Numbers may be in decimal or hex ('0xNN').

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B pcnet_cs: this is an AX88190 card!
Indicates that this card is based on the Asix AX88190 chipset, which
requires the \fBaxnet_cs\fR driver.
.TP
.B eth#: interrupt(s) dropped!
Indicates that the driver did not receive an interrupt notification
for some reason.  The driver will poll the card (with a significant
performance penalty) if the problem persists.  The most likely cause
is an interrupt conflict and/or host bridge configuration problem.
.TP
.B eth#: MII is missing!
Indicates that the driver expects this card to have a ``Media
Independent Interface'' for link speed and duplex selection, but could
not find it.

.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5).
