.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Donald Becker and David Hinds.
.\" tc575_cb.4 1.0 1998/02/5 03:35:00
.\"
.TH 3C575_CB 4 "1998/02/05 03:35:00" "CESDIS"
.SH NAME
3c575_cb \- 3Com 3c575 Etherlink XL 10/100 CardBus device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod 3c575_cb.o
.RB [ pc_debug=\c
.IR n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 3c575_cb
is the low-level Card Services driver for the 3Com 3c575 EtherLink XL
CardBus ethernet adapter.  When this driver is attached to a card, it
allocates the next available ethernet device
.RB ( eth0 .. eth# ).
This information for this card will be reported in the kernel log file, and
the device name passed on to
.BR cardmgr (8).
.PP
The driver uses the N-Way autonegotiating transceiver to negotiate the speed
and duplex of the network link.  If the link partner does not support
negotiation only the link speed is detected.
.PP
If the on-card EEPROM is programmed for a full-duplex (FD) link, only FD media
types are advertised and the link is assumed to be full-duplex.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI rx_copybreak= n
Set the breakpoint for copying incoming frames into reduced-sized
packet buffers.  The default value of 200 bytes is reasonable for most systems.
.TP
.BI max_interrupt_work= n
This option selects the maximum amount of work handled during each
interrupt.  Each received packet counts as one unit of work, as does
updating statistics counters and handling errors.  The default value of
20 should only need to be increased on very slow machines.
If "too much work at interrupt" messages are logged
the system power management configuration should be set to full speed rather
than increasing this value.

.SH AUTHOR
This driver: Donald Becker \- becker@cesdis.gsfc.nasa.gov.
.PP
Linux PC Card control software: David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu et al.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5), ifport(8).

