.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Donald Becker and David Hinds.
.\" tc574_cs.4 1.0 1998/01/12 19:11:01
.\"
.TH 3C574_CS 4 "1998/01/12 19:11:01" "CESDIS"
.SH NAME
3c574_cs \- 3Com 3c574 Etherlink XL 10/100 PC Card device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod 3c574_cs.o
.RB [ pc_debug=n ]
.RB [ tc574_debug=n ]
.RB [ if_port=n ]
.RB [ irq_list=i,j,... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 3c574_cs
is the low-level Card Services driver for the 3Com 3c574 EtherLink XL
PCMCIA ethernet adapter.  When this driver is attached to a card, it
allocates the next available ethernet device
.RB ( eth0 .. eth# ).
This device name will be reported in the kernel log file, and passed on to
.BR cardmgr (8).
.PP
The driver uses the N-Way autonegotiating transceiver to negotiate the speed
and duplex of the network link.  If the link partner does not support
negotiation only the link speed is detected.
.PP
If the on-card EEPROM is programmed for a full-duplex (FD) link, only FD media
types are advertised and the link is assumed to be full-duplex.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B pc_debug=n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.B if_port=n
Selects the transceiver type.  Only 0, 1, and 4 are acceptable values, other
values return an error.  This actual value specificed is ignored -- the
autonegotiating transceiver selects the media speed and duplex used.
.TP
.B if_mask=bitmask
.B irq_list=i,j,...
This option limits the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver.
The default is all normally-usable IRQs.
.TP
.B max_interrupt_work=work-limit
This option selects the maximum amount of work handled during each
interrupt.  Each received packet counts as one unit of work, as does
updating statistics counters and handling errors.  The default value is 10.
.TP
.B use_fifo_buffer=b
A non-zero value enables an acceleration buffer in front of the transmit and
receive data FIFOs.  This option may cause the system to silently hang if the
system PCMCIA interface timing is not properly configured, and thus is
normally disabled.
.TP
.B use_memory_ops=b
A non-zero value specifies using memory operations instead of I/O operations
when accessing the FIFO.  This results in faster data transfer in specific
systems.  This option is normally disabled and should only be enabled if
use_fifo_buffer is also enabled.
.TP
.B no_wait=b
A non-zero value specifies that no WAIT signal is gererated by the card.
This option should only be used with already slow systems that be become
even slower if the encounter a WAIT condition.  This option can cause data
corruption, so do not enable it unless tests verify that it both results in
improved performance and reliable operation.

.SH AUTHOR
Driver core: Donald Becker \- becker@cesdis.gsfc.nasa.gov.
.PP
PC Card interface: David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5), ifport(8).

