.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.\" tc589_cs.4 1.10 1998/05/04 23:28:24
.\"
.TH 3C589_CS 4 "1998/05/04 23:28:24" "pcmcia-cs"
.SH NAME
3c589_cs \- 3Com 3c589 Etherlink III device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod 3c589_cs.o
.RB [ pc_debug=n ]
.RB [ tc589_debug=n ]
.RB [ if_port=n ]
.RB [ irq_list=i,j,... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 3c589_cs
is the low-level Card Services driver for the 3Com 3c589
PCMCIA ethernet adapter and 3Com 3c562/3c563 combo cards.  When this
driver is attached to a card, it
allocates the next available ethernet device
.RB ( eth0 .. eth# ).
This
device name will be reported in the kernel log file, and passed on to
.BR cardmgr (8).
.PP
The driver will attempt to autodetect the transceiver type (10base2 or
10baseT) when an ethernet device is opened.  If the autodetection is
unsuccessful, it may be necessary to specify the specify the interface
type when the module is loaded or with the
.B ifport
command.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B pc_debug=n
Selects the PCMCIA debugging level.  This parameter is only available
if the module is compiled with debugging enabled.  A non-zero value
enables debugging.
.TP
.B tc589_debug=n
Selects the network debugging level.  The current default is 3; values
of up to six increase reporting verbosity.
.TP
.B if_port=n
Selects the transceiver type.  0 is autodetect (10baseT or 10base2),
1 is 10baseT (twisted pair), 2 is
10base2 (BNC, or thin net). and 3 is AUI (thick ethernet).  The
default is 0 (autodetect).
.TP
.B irq_list=i,j,...
Specifies the set of interrupts that may be allocated by this driver.
.SH AUTHOR
David Hinds \- dhinds@hyper.stanford.edu
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cardmgr(8), pcmcia(5), ioport(8).
